Welcome back and we've looked at a number of different event handlers and in this lesson we're going
to look at on key press on paste for input forms as well.
So let's create an input area.
And for this input area.
So I'm going to set it up as text and we all know that with each team of 5 I can set it as a number
but for the purposes of this exercise what I want to do with this input is I only want to restrict users
to be able to have to add numbers.
So my number input or I would just call it my name.
So I only want users to be able to add in numbers so no other characters no at nothing but digits.
So let's set up a function here so on key press so that listener are there.
And what we want to happen is that we want to fire off a function and this function is going to be number
check or just sorting it there.
So basically it's going to check for the number value there.
So now let's let's set that up here so we've got a function
check.
And so basically what's going to happen is we're going to check to see if that target is and the value
of that target is a number.
So let's build that message function again and message.
So whatever value gets passed in the message we're going to do the same one here where we're just going
to simply output it into our wrapper area.
So document get element by Id grab that one with the wrapper ID and in our Him now equals them.
So that way we can just send it as a variable value.
So let's let's do this one first message and Ramus and the target value and it's actually going to send
out a number of times.
So let me show you what I mean.
So basically whenever I'm typing in there we see that every time I update the key it's updating that
value.
So this is pretty good as we're able to get that value but it's not actually giving us that key value.
So we need to actually return back the key value that was from that event.
So let me show you how to do that.
So instead of target value we can do that.
And this is going to be the key that actually initiated that value.
So that way we can do a check to see if these inputs are going to be a number or a digit.
So it's as easy as that to make that check and Javascript has a built in ability to actually check to
see if a value is a number or not.
And this is where we're going to use boolean values.
So let me open up the console and Javascript has a built in method that can check to see if value is
a number or not.
So in here I'm just going to enter in some text and we see that is Nan and it's true.
So not a number.
So in order to find out if it's actually not a number we need to do the negative.
So again going back to the operators.
And now if I type in some text here we can see that it's false.
And if we do the opposite here and if we update this value.
So 5 update this value with a number then it's going to come back as true.
So this is what we want to do and we want to do a boolean check of this key value to check to see if
it's a number or not.
And we're actually going to return something back to this event handler and doing that.
It gives us the ability.
So if we're actually looking for our return back of a value then we can actually limit content that's
being output so we can know all the key press event.
So let me show you how that works.
So let's do the check is nine and let's Ponson that key event.
Tell You
And what we're going to do is we're going to return this.
And I'm also going to put that in here so that we can see what we're returning.
So let's go back and refresh it.
And we see that false and we see true and we still need to cut off the ability to be able to add in
those values.
And that's all we can add in return.
So what this is going to do is this is going to return on the key press.
And if this is true then it's going to allow it.
And if it's false because writing in this return if this value is true if this value is true then we're
going to be allowed to type the key.
So let me show you what happens now.
So now if I try to type in a character all I get is false if I try to type in numbers I get true.
So it completely disables the ability to type in anything but digits into my input field.
So it's the same thing.
Jim L5 does have number but there are a number of uses for this type of functionality as well.
And there's another one that I quickly wanted to add in and that's on paste.
So we know that we can prevent prevent event from firing by doing returning back false.
So this is the same thing as saying return false.
So by doing return.
So first set it returned true.
And what I'll try to do is go back to refresh the page and I'm going to try to paste into their And
we're allowed to do that because it's return true.
But if I do return false when they go back and refresh it again and try to pass something in there it's
not letting me pay so I am trying to paste in it.
So this is even more advanced functionality that you can do within your event handlers where you can
know them basically stop them from firing off and continuing with that process.
So now what I want you to do now is try this for yourself try though on key press and you can start
by just doing it.
Either true or false.
And if you do false then you're not going to be able to enter anything into that input field.
And also if you do on paste return false you're not going to be able to enter any content into that
input field either.
And the other thing that I want you to take away from this lesson as well is the is nán method.
So this is built into javascript and it's a quick and easy way to tell if a value is a number and if
it's not a number that's going to return true.
And if it is a number then it's going to return false because it's not a number.
So we do a double negative with the explanation mark in front of it to return true if it is a number.
So what I want you to do as well is open up your editor and create another input field that only takes
characters that doesn't take any numbers at all.
So try that out and I'll show you the solution as well.
So it's really easy that we just do basically the opposite of what we did for this one.
So I'm going to do it does it matter.
And on key press return and check to and at this time we're checking to make sure that the character
is not a number.
So we're seeing we've got to get rid of this explanation mark and named this to check too.
And now let's go and refresh it.
So this one only takes characters it doesn't take any numbers.
This one only takes numbers.